![org-roam][org-roam-intro-image]

## What is Org-roam?

Org-roam is a [Roam][roamresearch] replica built around the
all-powerful [Org-mode][org].

Org-roam is a solution for effortless non-hierarchical note-taking
with Org-mode. With Org-roam, notes flow naturally, making note-taking
fun and easy. Org-roam should also work as a plug-and-play solution
for anyone already using Org-mode for their personal wiki.

To understand more about Roam, a collection of links are available in
[the appendix](notetaking_workflow.md).

Org-roam aims to implement the core features of Roam, leveraging the
mature ecosystem around Org-mode where possible. Eventually, we hope
to further introduce features enabled by the Emacs ecosystem.

## Why use Org-roam?

##### Private and Secure

Edit your personal wiki completely offline, entirely in your control.
Encrypt your notes with GPG.

##### Longevity

Unlike web solutions like Roam research, the notes are first and
foremost plain Org-mode files -- Org-roam simply builds up an
auxilliary database to give the personal wiki superpowers. Having your
notes in plain-text is crucial for the longevity of your wiki. Never
have to worry about proprietary web solutions being taken down. Edit
your plain-text notes in notepad if all other editors cease to exist.

##### Free and Open-source

Org-roam is free and open-source, which means that if you feel unhappy
with any part of Org-roam, you may choose to extend Org-roam, or open
a PR.

##### Leverage the Org-mode Ecosystem

Over the years, Emacs and Org-mode has developed into a mature system
for plain-text organization. Building upon Org-mode already puts
Org-roam light-years ahead of many other solutions.

Emacs is also a fantastic interface for editing text, and we can
inherit many of the powerful text-navigation and editing packages
available to Emacs.

There are several packages that are similar to Org-roam, see the
[Comparison](comparison.md) page for a detailed comparison.

## Project Status

As of March 2020, most of the core functionality and interfaces have
stabilized, and a stable release is near.

[org-roam-intro-image]: images/org-roam-intro.png
[roamresearch]: https://www.roamresearch.com/
[org]: https://orgmode.org/
